Add Create a channel tutorial without a system channel and using test network (#2313)
hyperledger/fabric: docs/source/create_channel/create_channel_test_net.md

Creating orderer.example.com    ... done
Creating peer0.org1.example.com ... done
Creating cli                    ... done
CONTAINER ID   IMAGE                               COMMAND             CREATED         STATUS                  PORTS                                            NAMES
1667543b5634   hyperledger/fabric-tools:latest     "/bin/bash"         1 second ago    Up Less than a second                                                    cli
b6b117c81c7f   hyperledger/fabric-peer:latest      "peer node start"   2 seconds ago   Up 1 second             0.0.0.0:7051->7051/tcp                           peer0.org1.example.com
703ead770e05   hyperledger/fabric-orderer:latest   "orderer"           2 seconds ago   Up Less than a second   0.0.0.0:7050->7050/tcp, 0.0.0.0:7053->7053/tcp   orderer.example.com
718d43f5f312   hyperledger/fabric-peer:latest      "peer node start"   2 seconds ago   Up 1 second             7051/tcp, 0.0.0.0:9051->9051/tcp                 peer0.org2.example.com
```

Notice that the peers are running on ports `7051` and `9051`, while the orderer is running on port `7050`. We will use these ports in subsequent commands.  

> By default, when you start the test network, it does not contain any channels. The following instructions demonstrate how to add a channel that is named `channel1` to this network.

Reviewer: I would mention, either here or up above when `network.sh up` is run, that there is an option to automatically `createChannel` when bringing up the test network, and that this tutorial doesn't do that so that you can learn how to create one manually.  Otherwise the reader may think that they always have to run through these steps to work with a channel on test network.

Author: Added this to the first paragraph:
It is worth noting that the test network includes a `createChannel` subcommand that can be used to create a channel, but this tutorial explains how do it manually, the process that is required when you do not use the test network.

### Set up the configtxgen tool

> Channels are created by building a channel creation transaction and submitting the transaction to the ordering service. The channel creation transaction specifies the initial configuration of the channel and is used by the ordering service to write the channel genesis block. While it is possible to build the channel creation transaction file manually, it is easier to use the [configtxgen](../commands/configtxgen.html) tool. The tool reads the test network `configtx\configtx.yaml` file that defines the configuration of our channel, and then writes the relevant information into the channel creation transaction. When you [installed Fabric](install.html), the `configtxgen` tool was installed in the `fabric-samples\bin` directory for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Channels are created by generating a channel creation transaction in a genesis block, and then passing that genesis block to an ordering service node in a join request. The channel creation transaction specifies the initial configuration of the channel and can be created by the [configtxgen](../commands/configtxgen.html) tool. The tool reads the test network `configtx\configtx.yaml` file that defines the configuration of our channel, and then writes the relevant information into the channel creation transaction and outputs a genesis block including the channel creation transaction. When you [installed Fabric](install.html), the `configtxgen` tool was installed in the `fabric-samples\bin` directory for you.
```

Ensure that you are still operating from the `test-network` directory of your local clone of `fabric-samples` and run this command:

```
export PATH=${PWD}/../bin:$PATH
```

Next, before you can use `configtxgen`, you need to the set the `FABRIC_CFG_PATH` environment variable to the location of the test network folder that contains the `configtx.yaml` file. Because we are using the test network, we reference the `configtx` folder:
```
export FABRIC_CFG_PATH=${PWD}/configtx
```

Now verify that you can use the tool by printing the `configtxgen` help text:
```
configtxgen --help
```

### The configtx.yaml file

> The `configtx.yaml` file specifies the **channel configuration** of new channels. The information that is required to build the channel configuration is specified in a readable and editable form in the `configtx.yaml` file. The `configtxgen` tool uses the channel profiles that are defined in the `configtx.yaml` file to create the channel configuration and write it to the [protobuf format](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers) that can be read by Fabric.

Reviewer: This paragraph duplicates some of the information in the first paragraph of the prior section.

Author: I've tried to remove the redundancies.

You can find the `configtx.yaml` file that is used to deploy the test network in the `configtx` folder in the `test-network/configtx` directory. The file contains the following information that we will use to create our new channel:

> - **Organizations:** The organizations that can become members of your channel. Each organization has a reference to the cryptographic material that is used to build the [channel MSP](../membership/membership.html).

Reviewer: Mention that this includes ordering organizations and peer organizations.

> - **Ordering service:** Which ordering nodes will form the ordering service of the network, and consensus method they will use to agree to a common order of transactions. This section also defines the ordering nodes that are part of the ordering service consenter set. In the test network sample, there is only a single ordering node, but in a production network we recommend **five** ordering nodes to allow for two ordering nodes to go down and still maintain consensus.

Reviewer: The first two sentences essentially say the same thing and can be combined.

    ```
    Addresses:

>         - orderer.example.com:7050

Reviewer: The Addresses entry should be removed from here, and in fact from the test network configtx.yaml file itself.
We now recommend to only specify the OrdererEndpoints in the org section above, you can see it here:
https://github.com/hyperledger/fabric-samples/blob/master/test-network/configtx/configtx.yaml#L44-L45

Author: I did not know that. Removed it from the tutorial.

    EtcdRaft:
        Consenters:
        - Host: orderer.example.com
          Port: 7050
          ClientTLSCert: ../organizations/ordererOrganizations/example.com/orderers/orderer.example.com/tls/server.crt
          ServerTLSCert: ../organizations/ordererOrganizations/example.com/orderers/orderer.example.com/tls/server.crt
    ```
- **Channel policies** Different sections of the file work together to define the policies that will govern how organizations interact with the channel and which organizations need to approve channel updates. For the purposes of this tutorial, we will use the default policies used by Fabric.

> - **Channel profiles** Each channel profile references information from other sections of the `configtx.yaml` file to build a channel configuration. The profiles are used to create the genesis block of application channel. Notice that the `configtx.yaml` file in the test network includes a single profile named `TwoOrgsApplicationGenesis` that we will use to generate the channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Channel profiles** Each channel profile references information from other sections of the `configtx.yaml` file to build a channel configuration. The profiles are used to create the genesis block of application channel. Notice that the `configtx.yaml` file in the test network includes a single profile named `TwoOrgsApplicationGenesis` that we will use to generate the create channel transaction.
```

    ```yaml
    TwoOrgsApplicationGenesis:
        <<: *ChannelDefaults
        Orderer:
            <<: *OrdererDefaults
            Organizations:
                - *OrdererOrg
            Capabilities:
                <<: *OrdererCapabilities
        Application:
            <<: *ApplicationDefaults
            Organizations:
                - *Org1
                - *Org2
            Capabilities:
                <<: *ApplicationCapabilities
    ```

> The profile includes both peer organizations, `Org1` and `Org2` as well as the ordering organization `OrdererOrg`. Additional ordering nodes and ordering organizations can be added or removed from the consenter set using channel updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The profile includes both peer organizations, `Org1` and `Org2` as well as the ordering organization `OrdererOrg`. Additional ordering nodes and ordering organizations can be added or removed from the consenter set at a later time using a channel update transaction.
```

Want to learn more about this file and how to build your own channel application profiles? Visit [Using configtx.yaml to create a channel genesis block](create_channel_config.html) tutorial for more details. For now, we will return to the operational aspects of creating the channel, though we will reference parts of this file in future steps.

> ## Step one: Create the channel genesis block

Reviewer: Keep consistent with the other create channel tutorial, it called Step 1:
Generate the genesis block of the channel

Author: I changed it to Step one: Generate the genesis block of the channel

> Because we have started the Fabric test network, we are ready to create a new channel for our peer organizations. We have already set the environment variables that are required to use the `configtxgen` tool. To simplify subsequent commands, we also need to set some environment variables to establish the locations of the certificates for the nodes in the test network:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because we have started the Fabric test network, we are ready to create a new channel. We have already set the environment variables that are required to use the `configtxgen` tool. To simplify subsequent commands, we also need to set some environment variables to establish the locations of the certificates for the nodes in the test network:
```

```

> export CORE_PEER_TLS_ENABLED=true

Reviewer: Set this one later in the peer join section.

export ORDERER_CA=${PWD}/organizations/ordererOrganizations/example.com/orderers/orderer.example.com/msp/tlscacerts/tlsca.example.com-cert.pem
export PEER0_ORG1_CA=${PWD}/organizations/peerOrganizations/org1.example.com/peers/peer0.org1.example.com/tls/ca.crt

> export PEER0_ORG2_CA=${PWD}/organizations/peerOrganizations/org2.example.com/peers/peer0.org2.example.com/tls/ca.crt

Reviewer: Remove these two, the path can be provided later in the peer join section when CORE_PEER_TLS_ROOTCERT_FILE is set for each peer.
Since each is only set once in the peer section, the additional env variables across the two sections just adds to the complexity with an unnecessary indirection.

export ORDERER_ADMIN_TLS_SIGN_CERT=${PWD}/organizations/ordererOrganizations/example.com/orderers/orderer.example.com/tls/server.crt
export ORDERER_ADMIN_TLS_PRIVATE_KEY=${PWD}/organizations/ordererOrganizations/example.com/orderers/orderer.example.com/tls/server.key

> ```

Reviewer: For these two and ORDERER_CA, set them later right above the osnadmin command.  It is easier to mentally keep track of the env variables if they are set right before use.

- **`--config-block`**: Specify the location of the channel genesis block that you created with the `configtxgen` command, or the latest config block.
- **`-o`**: Specify the hostname and port of the orderer admin endpoint. For the test network ordering node this is set to `localhost:7053`.

In addition, because the `osnadmin channel` commands communicate with the ordering node using mutual TLS, you need to provide the following certificates:
- **`--ca-file`**: Specify the location and file name of the orderer organization TLS CA root certificate.
- **`--client-cert`**: Specify the location and file name of admin client signed certificate from the TLS CA.
- **`--client-key`**: Specify the location and file name of admin client private key from the TLS CA.

When successful, the output of the command contains the following:
```
Status: 201
{
	"name": "channel1",
	"url": "/participation/v1/channels/channel1",
	"consensusRelation": "consenter",
	"status": "active",
	"height": 1
}
```

The channel is active and ready for peers to join.

### Consenter vs. Follower

> Notice the ordering node was joined to the channel with a `consensusRelation: "consenter"`. If you ran the command against an ordering node that is not included in the list of `Consenters:` in the `configtx.yaml` file (or the channel configuration consenter set), it is added to the channel as a `follower`. This is important because anytime a new orderer joins the cluster, you need to ensure that you do not lose quorum while the ledger on the new orderer catches up. Adding a second orderer to a single-node cluster changes the majority from one to two. Therefore, during the catch-up process and until the new orderer starts executing consensus, the cluster is in a state of reduced fault tolerance. To account for this situation and avoid any downtime, the `osnadmin channel list` command can be used to ascertain the consensusRelation status of an orderer, which can be either `consenter` or `follower`. When a node joins as a `follower`, the channel ledger is replicated from other orderers, but as it does not take part in consensus, channel operations are not impacted. Because replicating a long chain of blocks can take a long time, joining as a `follower` is most useful for channels with high block heights because it allows you to confirm that an orderer is able to replicate blocks before having it count towards quorum. Therefore, to join an orderer to a channel as a `follower`, you should not include the node in the channel configuration consenter set.

Reviewer: Isn't this information elsewhere in the docs? Couldn't we link to it instead of describe the whole thing again here? Would nice to keep the test network tutorial short and sweet for newbies. I think it is worth mentioning in a sentence or two, and then link to the details.

Author: This comment reinforces the need for another conceptual topic or ops guide content. I left 2 sentences in and then linked to where we currently explain more on this.

> Notice the ordering node was joined to the channel with a `consensusRelation: "consenter"`. If you ran the command against an ordering node that is not included in the list of `Consenters:` in the `configtx.yaml` file (or the channel configuration consenter set), it is added to the channel as a `follower`. This is important because anytime a new orderer joins the cluster, you need to ensure that you do not lose quorum while the ledger on the new orderer catches up. Adding a second orderer to a single-node cluster changes the majority from one to two. Therefore, during the catch-up process and until the new orderer starts executing consensus, the cluster is in a state of reduced fault tolerance. To account for this situation and avoid any downtime, the `osnadmin channel list` command is available can be used to ascertain the consensusRelation status of an orderer, which can be either `consenter` or `follower`. When a node joins as a `follower`, the channel ledger is replicated from other orderers, but as it does not take part in consensus, channel operations are not impacted. Because replicating a long chain of blocks can take a long time, joining as a `follower` is most useful for channels with high block heights because it allows you to confirm that an orderer is able to replicate blocks before having it count towards quorum. Therefore, to join an orderer to a channel as a `follower`, you should not include the node in the channel configuration consenter set.

Reviewer 2: just a typo: `is available / can be used`

Author: Thanks. Changed it to `can be used`

### List channels on an orderer

Before you join peers to the channel, you might want to try to create additional channels. As you create more channels, the `osnadmin channel list` command is useful to view the channels that this orderer is a member of. The same parameters are used here as in the `osnadmin channel join` command from the previous step:
```
osnadmin channel list -o localhost:7053 --ca-file "$ORDERER_CA" --client-cert "$ORDERER_ADMIN_TLS_SIGN_CERT" --client-key "$ORDERER_ADMIN_TLS_PRIVATE_KEY"
```
The output of this command looks similar to:

```
Status: 200
{
	"systemChannel": null,
	"channels": [
		{
			"name": "channel1",
			"url": "/participation/v1/channels/channel1"
		}
	]
}
```

### Join peers to the channel

The test network includes two peer organizations each with one peer. But before we can use the peer CLI, we need to set some environment variables to specify which user (client MSP) we are acting as and which peer we are targeting. Set the following environment variables to indicate that we are acting as the Org1 admin and targeting the Org1 peer.

```
export CORE_PEER_TLS_ENABLED=true

> export PEER0_ORG1_CA=${PWD}/organizations/peerOrganizations/org1.example.com/peers/peer0.org1.example.com/tls/ca.crt

Reviewer: No need to set env variable PEER0_ORG1_CA.
Just set the path in CORE_PEER_TLS_ROOTCERT_FILE directly.
Unnecessary indirection only adds confusion.

> The test network includes two peer organizations each with one peer. But before we can use the peer CLI, we need to set some environment variables to specify which peer we are acting as. Set the following environment variables to indicate that we are acting as the peer in `Org1`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The test network includes two peer organizations each with one peer. But before we can use the peer CLI, we need to set some environment variables to specify which user (client MSP) we are acting as and which peer we are targeting. Set the following environment variables to indicate that we are acting as the Org1 admin and targeting the Org1 peer.
```

export CORE_PEER_LOCALMSPID="Org1MSP"
export CORE_PEER_TLS_ROOTCERT_FILE=$PEER0_ORG1_CA
export CORE_PEER_MSPCONFIGPATH=${PWD}/organizations/peerOrganizations/org1.example.com/users/Admin@org1.example.com/msp
export CORE_PEER_ADDRESS=localhost:7051
```

In order to use the peer CLI, we also need to modify the `FABRIC_CONFIG_PATH`:
```
FABRIC_CFG_PATH=$PWD/../config/
```
To join the test network peer from `Org1` to the channel `channel1` simply pass the genesis block in a join request:
```
peer channel join -b ./channel-artifacts/channel1.block
```
When successful, the output of this command contains the following:
```
[channelCmd] InitCmdFactory -> INFO 001 Endorser and orderer connections initialized
[channelCmd] executeJoin -> INFO 002 Successfully submitted proposal to join channel
```

We repeat these steps for the `Org2` peer. Set the following environment variables to operate the `peer` CLI as the `Org2` admin. The environment variables will also set the `Org2` peer, ``peer0.org2.example.com``, as the target peer.
```

> export PEER0_ORG2_CA=${PWD}/organizations/peerOrganizations/org2.example.com/peers/peer0.org2.example.com/tls/ca.crt

Reviewer: Remove

export CORE_PEER_LOCALMSPID="Org2MSP"

> export CORE_PEER_TLS_ROOTCERT_FILE=${PWD}/organizations/peerOrganizations/org2.example.com/peers/peer0.org2.example.com/tls/ca.crt

Reviewer: This one is good!

Author: OK. Modified all of these to:
```
export CORE_PEER_TLS_ENABLED=true
export CORE_PEER_LOCALMSPID="Org1MSP"
export CORE_PEER_TLS_ROOTCERT_FILE=${PWD}/organizations/peerOrganizations/org1.example.com/peers/peer0.org1.example.com/tls/ca.crt
export CORE_PEER_MSPCONFIGPATH=${PWD}/organizations/peerOrganizations/org1.example.com/users/Admin@org1.example.com/msp
export CORE_PEER_ADDRESS=localhost:7051
```

and 
```
export CORE_PEER_LOCALMSPID="Org2MSP"
export CORE_PEER_TLS_ROOTCERT_FILE=${PWD}/organizations/peerOrganizations/org2.example.com/peers/peer0.org2.example.com/tls/ca.crt
export CORE_PEER_MSPCONFIGPATH=${PWD}/organizations/peerOrganizations/org2.example.com/users/Admin@org2.example.com/msp
export CORE_PEER_ADDRESS=localhost:9051
```

> To join the test network peer from `Org1` to the channel `channel1` simply run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To join the test network peer from `Org1` to the channel `channel1` simply pass the genesis block in a join request:
```

```
Now that the channel has been updated by adding two channel configuration blocks to the channel genesis block, the height of the channel will have grown to three:
```
Blockchain info: {"height":3,"currentBlockHash":"GKqqk/HNi9x/6YPnaIUpMBlb0Ew6ovUnSB5MEF7Y5Pc=","previousBlockHash":"cl4TOQpZ30+d17OF5YOkX/mtMjJpUXiJmtw8+sON8a8="}
```

## Deploy a chaincode to the new channel

We can confirm that the channel was created successfully by deploying a chaincode to the channel. We can use the `network.sh` script to deploy the Basic asset transfer chaincode to any test network channel. Deploy a chaincode to our new channel using the following command:
```
./network.sh deployCC -ccn basic -ccp ../asset-transfer-basic/chaincode-go/ -ccl go -c channel1
```

After you run the command, you should see the chaincode being deployed to the channel in your logs. The chaincode is invoked to add data to the channel ledger.

```
Committed chaincode definition for chaincode 'basic' on channel 'channel1':
Version: 1.0, Sequence: 1, Endorsement Plugin: escc, Validation Plugin: vscc, Approvals: [Org1MSP: true, Org2MSP: true]
Query chaincode definition successful on peer0.org2 on channel 'channel1'
```

> Then run the following command to initialize the ledger:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then run the following command to initialize some assets on the ledger:
```

```
peer chaincode invoke -o localhost:7050 --ordererTLSHostnameOverride orderer.example.com --tls --cafile "$ORDERER_CA" -C channel1 -n basic --peerAddresses localhost:7051 --tlsRootCertFiles "${PWD}/organizations/peerOrganizations/org1.example.com/peers/peer0.org1.example.com/tls/ca.crt" --peerAddresses localhost:9051 --tlsRootCertFiles "${PWD}/organizations/peerOrganizations/org2.example.com/peers/peer0.org2.example.com/tls/ca.crt" -c '{"function":"InitLedger","Args":[]}'
```
When successful you will see:
```
[chaincodeCmd] chaincodeInvokeOrQuery -> INFO 001 Chaincode invoke successful. result: status:200
```

> Confirm the data was added by issuing the following query:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Confirm the assets were added to the ledger by issuing the following query:
```
